---
layout: page
title: "Getting started"
category: doc
date: 2014-08-18 06:23:59
---

#### Download

In order to run the MEI Snippet Viewer on your web page, you need the file `meisnippetviewer.min.js` and jQuery. 
If you use Bower, add the following line to your dependencies in `bower.json` 

```
"meisnippetviewer": "git://github.com/aerhard/meisnippetviewer.git#master"
```

and run `bower update` from the root of your project. This will install the MEI Snippet Viewer and jQuery.

If you don't use Bower, you can download jQuery and `meisnippetviewer.min.js` manually (for the MEI Snippet Viewer, see https://github.com/aerhard/meisnippetviewer).


#### Basic usage

Include both scripts in your HTML page:

```
<script type="text/JavaScript" src="js/jquery.min.js"></script>
<script type="text/JavaScript" src="js/meisnippetviewer.min.js"></script>
```

and create an MEI.Viewer object:
 
```
<script>
...
var viewer = new MSV.Viewer({ 
      data   : myMEIData,
      target : $('#my-music-span')
    });
...
</script>
```

Rendering of the music is triggered automatically on object creation. 

See [Data]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2014-08-17-data %}) for ways of adding MEI code to your web page. 

#### Advanced options

In addition to `data` and `target`, there are a couple of non-mandatory) options available. Many of these 
properties can also be specified in the MEI document (for example, page measurement). If there is a property 
both passed to the constructor and defined in the document, the first will override the document's value.

- {Number} `page_scale` : The scaling of the fragment (set 1 for 100%, 0.5 for 50% etc.), defaults to `1`
- {Number} `page_height` : The height of the fragment (defaults to `350`)
- {Number} `page_width` : The width of the fragment (defaults to `800`)
- {Boolean} `autoMeasureNumbers` : Specifies if measure numbers should automatically be added to each system start (defaults to `false`)
- {Object} `measureNumberFont` : The measure number font. An object in which font family, font size and weight can be specified. Defaults to
 `{
     family : 'Times',
     size : 14,
     weight : 'Italic'
 }`. Note: The weight properties can be used to specify style, weight or both (space separated); some of the objects are passed directly to vexFlow (which requires the name 'weight'), so the name is 'weight'
- {Object} `anchoredTextFont` : The default font used with anchored texts. An object in which font family, font size and weight can be specified. Defaults to 
 `{
     family : 'Times',
     size : 22,
     weight : ''
    }`
- {Boolean} `useMeiLib` : Specifies if the MeiLib library should be used to pre-process the input XML document. Necessary when there are variants in the MEI document (defaults to `false`)
- {Boolean} `checkXmlIds` : If set to false, the check run for missing xml:ids will be skipped. Xml:ids are necessary for the viewer to work: Set this option only to `false` if you are sure that no xml:ids are missing in the input file (defaults to `true`)
- {String} `xmlIdPrefix` : The prefix of the xml:ids added by the viewer. Needs only to be changed if `checkXmlIds` is `true` and the processed MEI document contains xml:ids starting with `M2V` (defaults to `M2V`).
- {Object[]} `layers` : The canvas layers used for Highlighting and Mouse move handling. See [Layers]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2014-08-17-layers %}). Can be either a subclass of MSV.AreaCollection like MSV.DefaultAreaCollection or, to specify the layer to contain the VexFlow output, an object with the property `type` with the value `vex`. The first layer will be the bottom-most, the last one the top-most. If no VexFlow layer is specified, a VexFlow Layer gets added automatically as the top-most layer. 

Further options are passed to MEItoVexFlow's converter:

- {Number} `page_margin_top` : The top page margin (defaults to `60`)
- {Number} `page_margin_left` : The left page margin (defaults to `20`)
- {Number} `page_margin_right` : The right page margin  (defaults to `20`)
- {Number} `systemSpacing` : The spacing between two staff  (defaults to `90`)
- {Number} `staveSpacing` : The default spacing between two staffs within a system; overridden by the spacing attribute of a staffDef element in the MEI code 
(defaults to `60`)
- {Boolean} `autoStaveConnectorLine` : Specifies if a stave connector line is drawn on the left of systems by default; if set to true, the auto line will not appear when staffDef/@symbol="none" is set for the outermost staffDef element (defaults to `true`)
- {"full"/"abbr"/null} `labelMode` : Specifies the way voice labels are added to staves (defaults to `null`). Values:
     - 'full': renders full labels in the first system, abbreviated labels in all following systems
     - 'abbr': only render abbreviated labels
     - null or undefined: renders no labels
- {Number} `maxHyphenDistance` The maximum distance (in pixels) between two hyphens in the lyrics lines  (defaults to `75`)
- {Object} `lyricsFont` The font used for rendering lyrics and hyphens (defaults to 
    `{
       family : 'Times',
       size : 15
     }`)
- {Object} `annotFont` : the font used for annotations like 'pizz.' (defaults to `{
      family : 'Times',
      size : 15,
      weight : 'Italic'
    }`) 
- {Object} `dynamFont` : the font used for dynamics (defaults to `{
      family : 'Times',
      size : 18,
      weight : 'bold italic'
    }`) 
- {Object} `tempoFont` : The tempo font (defaults to `{
      family : 'Times',
      size : 17,
      weight : 'bold'
    }`) 
- {Object} `staff` The staff config object passed to each Vex.Flow.Staff (defaults to `{
    vertical_bar_width : 20,
    top_text_position : 1.5,
    bottom_text_position : 7.5
  }`) 

